GWEN IFILL: Good evening. I'm
Gwen Ifill.
Judy Woodruff is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: a
major decision
at the Supreme Court. Justices
reject abortion
restrictions in Texas, the
biggest win for
abortion rights advocates in 25
years.
Also ahead this Monday:
HARI SREENIVASAN: I'm Hari
Sreenivasan in
London. As the clouds of
uncertainty roll
by after the vote to leave the
European Union,
we explore the many
uncertainties that still
remain for the future of the
United Kingdom.
GWEN IFILL: And what books to
pack for the
beach? We kick off Jeffrey
Brown's summer
reading week. Tonight, "The
Girls," a debut
novel that's already a
bestseller.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: It's the Supreme
Court's biggest
abortion case in nearly a
quarter-century.
By 5-3, the justices struck down
a Texas law
that forced many abortion
clinics to close
by requiring doctors to have
admitting privileges
at nearby hospitals. It had
since been widely
copied in other states.
Opponents of the law celebrated,
but both
sides vowed the fight will go
on.
NANCY NORTHUP, President, Center
For Reproductive
Rights: Today's Supreme Court
decision is
a game-changer in the
unrelenting assault
on women's health and rights
that has been
going on in state legislatures
for years.
This is a tremendous victory,
and we will
go forward in making sure that
all of the
laws that are blocking women's
access to the
constitutional rights will be
overturned.
PENNY YOUNG NANCE, President,
Concerned Women
for America: Unfortunately, the
Supreme Court
sided with big abortion. So we
stand here
as members of the pro-life
movement saying
that we will not give up. If
anything, we're
more resolute. This next
election is about
between one and four Supreme
Court justices,
hundreds of lower court
justices, and 5,000
appointees for our government.
We as a pro-life
community must vote. This is a
call to action.
We will not give up.
GWEN IFILL: Also today, the
court overturned
the bribery conviction of former
Virginia
Governor Bob McDonnell. The
unanimous decision
is likely to make it harder to
prosecute elected
officials for corruption. We
will explore
today's court action after the
news summary.
In the day's other news:
Britain's vote to
quit the European Union weighed
on world markets
again and on Wall Street. The
Dow Jones industrial
average lost 260 points on top
of the 600
points it lost Friday. It closed
today at
17140. The Nasdaq fell 113
points, and the
S&P 500 dropped nearly 37.
Meanwhile, two debt rating
agencies, Standard
& Poor's and Fitch, stripped
Britain of its
top credit rating.
A new round of storms rolled
over West Virginia
today, as more than 20 counties
braced for
new flooding. Since last week,
floods across
the state have killed nearly two
dozen people
and destroyed scores of homes.
and police
warned today of looting in some
of the hardest-hit
towns.
CAPT. JIM SIZEMORE, Fayette
County Sheriff's
Department: We will be stepping
up patrols
in that area now that we're able
to get in
there easily. And the citizens
have armed
themselves. If you decide to
loot and steal
from people who have already
been ravaged
by these floodwaters, you will
be lucky if
we're the ones that catch you.
GWEN IFILL: There's no damage
estimate yet,
but it could be the state's
worst in 30 years.
A wildfire in Central California
has now destroyed
250 homes and other buildings,
and killed
two people. The blaze has burned
across 45,000
acres in Kern County, about 110
miles north
of Los Angeles. The fire is
about 40 percent
contained. It was stoked by
record-breaking
heat and the state's ongoing
drought.
Another 165 pages of e-mails
have emerged
from Hillary Clinton's tenure as
secretary
of state. They include 34 that
the Democratic
presidential hopeful had not
turned over to
the State Department. Instead,
the department
obtained them from Huma Abedin,
Clinton's
deputy chief of staff. A federal
court ordered
them made public in a lawsuit by
a conservative
group.
The governments of Israel and
Turkey agreed
today to normalize relations,
ending a bitter
six-year diplomatic rift. Turkey
severed ties
with Israel in 2010 after 10
Turkish activists
were killed trying to run the
Israeli naval
blockade of Gaza. Even today,
the two sides
appeared at odds over future
access to Gaza.
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, Israeli
Prime Minister:
I'm sure this is an agreement
that is good
for both sides, so I don't want
to start quibbling
on that, but I will say this:
The security
naval blockade remains in place.
BINALI YILDIRIM, Turkish Prime
Minister (through
translator): Our first ship
carrying 10,000
tons of humanitarian aid will
set sail. Therefore,
the blockade there in Gaza will
have been
lifted with Turkey's leadership.
GWEN IFILL: The agreement does
call for delivery
of relief supplies to Gaza, plus
an exchange
of ambassadors. And Israel will
pay compensation
for the deaths of the Turkish
activists.
Turkey also moved today to
improve relations
with Russia. The Turkish
government announced
it will prosecute a man who
allegedly killed
a Russian military pilot shot
down at the
Syrian border. In a letter to
Russian leader
Vladimir Putin, Turkish
President Recep Tayyip
Erdogan also apologized for
downing the jet.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the Supreme
Court's momentous ruling on
abortion access;
we're on the ground in London
and in Scotland
as the reality of Brexit remains
foggy; Politics
Monday -- Elizabeth Warren goes
to bat against
Donald Trump; and much more.
Monday -- Elizabeth Warren goes
to bat against
Donald Trump; and much more.
We return to the historic day at
the Supreme
Court.
Abortion rights advocates
claimed a huge victory
as the eight-member court came
down 5-3 against
a restrictive Texas
anti-abortion law.
For more on end-of-term
decision, we turn
to "NewsHour" regular Marcia
Coyle, chief
Washington correspondent of "The
National
Law Journal."
Marcia, just to be clear, we're
talking about
two different restrictive --
anti, restrictive
laws that were returned today.
MARCIA COYLE, "The National Law
Journal":
Right.
GWEN IFILL: How did this court
-- take us
back.
MARCIA COYLE: OK.
GWEN IFILL: How did this case
get to the court?
MARCIA COYLE: OK.
The abortion clinics in Texas, a
group of
them, challenged the two Texas
regulations
that were contained in a law
that is now known
as HB-2. It was enacted back in
2013. The
two regulations, one required
clinic doctors
to have admitting privileges at
hospitals
within 30 miles of the clinic.
The second regulation required
the clinics
to meet the building safety and
other standards
of ambulatory surgical centers
that are almost
hospital-like.
GWEN IFILL: What was the
practical effect
of the law as it stood before
the court waited?
MARCIA COYLE: Well, when the
admitting privileges
requirement went into effect,
roughly 20 of
the 40 existing Texas abortion
clinics closed.
The clinics estimated that when
the ambulatory
surgical center requirement
would go into
effect, which it hadn't, that
the 20 remaining
clinics would go down to seven
or eight.
GWEN IFILL: Was this something
that -- we
have seen this happen with other
cases that
have made it to court, where
there was actually
a group that was looking for a
challenge?
MARCIA COYLE: No, I mean, this
was actually
a reaction to what Texas had
enacted.
Texas claimed that these
regulations were
designed to protect the health
of women. The
clinics claimed that the
regulations were
designed to stop abortions. So
the clinics
challenged them. They lost in
the lower federal
appellate court, but won in the
trial court,
but because they lost in the
lower federal
appellate court, they had to go
to the Supreme
Court.
And in the Supreme Court, they
claimed that
these regulations were
unconstitutional under
the court's 1992 test that asks
whether the
regulations or restrictions
impose an undue
burden on a woman's access to
abortion.
So, you know, what is an undue
burden? This
is why this case attracted so
much attention
and concern. What was the court
going to say?
How was it going to apply that
test? Well,
the court in '92 did say that
unnecessary
regulations that have the
purpose or effect
of imposing a substantial
obstacle in the
path of the woman constituted an
undue, unconstitutional
burden.
And that's what five justices
found today
the way the two restrictions
were implemented.
That's the effect of those.
GWEN IFILL: Now, we talk all the
time about
how there are normally nine
justice, but in
this case, there were eight
justices.
MARCIA COYLE: Yes.
GWEN IFILL: In the affirmative
action last
week, there was an outcome
because one of
the justices recused herself.
In this case, a 5-3 decision on
something
this important, something this
hot-button,
how did that happen, how did it
come about,
and what was the reasoning that
the court
put out?
MARCIA COYLE: OK.
First of all, I don't think that
Justice Scalia's
presence on the court, had he
lived, would
have made a difference in the
outcome. I think
he would have been in the
dissent, and it
would have been a 5-4 decision.
GWEN IFILL: Right.
MARCIA COYLE: Justice Breyer
wrote the majority
opinion, and he took the two
requirements
one by one, the admitting
privileges requirement.
Abortions, he said, have very
rare complications.
You don't really need the
hospital at hand
within 30 miles. He also said
that clinic
doctors already had working
arrangements with
other physicians who did have
admitting privileges
in case it was needed.
Then he looked at the effect
here. When the
privileges requirement went into
effect, 20
of 40 clinics closed, the
result, fewer doctors,
increased crowding, longer
waits, longer drive
distances, and he said there was
just no health
problem that this law was
seeking to cure.
On the surgical centers
requirement, there,
he looked and he said, OK,
abortion has fewer
complications than many of the
procedures
that Texas law allows to be done
outside of
surgical centers, in homes, in
offices. And
the risks there, he said,
ordinary birth,
childbirth, is 14 times the
risk.
So what's the impact then of
that requirement?
He looked at that. The 20
remaining clinics
would go down to seven or eight.
GWEN IFILL: But the surprise, at
least for
we novices, was that Justice
Kennedy ended
up on the same side as -- more
or less as
Justice Breyer.
MARCIA COYLE: Well, Justice
Kennedy was in
that 1992 decision that
reaffirmed Roe v.
Wade.
He had expressed some
unhappiness with how
the court had applied the 1992
position when
it took up some of Nebraska's
partial-birth
abortion act. But he -- as
Justice Breyer
said in his opinion, as long as
the court
continued to follow Roe v. Wade
and that 1992
Casey decision, this was the way
they should
interpret the undue burden.
Gwen, Justice Kennedy was the
senior justice
in the majority in this case, so
he had the
right to assign the opinion to
anyone who
was in the majority.
GWEN IFILL: By assigning it to
Justice Breyer,
he knew what he was getting.
MARCIA COYLE: He did. And he got
a very fact-laden,
straightforward opinion from
Justice Breyer.
GWEN IFILL: Marcia Coyle of
"National Law
Journal," thank you very much.
And thank you
for the whole term. This has
been exciting.
MARCIA COYLE: Oh, it's been an
unusual term.
Thanks, Gwen. My pleasure.
GWEN IFILL: We are now joined by
advocates
on both sides of the court's
abortion decision.
Nancy Northup is president of
the Center for
Reproductive Rights, which
helped bring the
challenge against the Texas law
to the courts.
And favoring the Texas law,
Steven Aden, he's
senior counsel for Alliance
Defending Freedom.
Nancy Northup, since you had the
big victory
today, we will start with you.
Tell us what the effect is of
this ruling
in a small sense, what happens
in Texas, and
in a broader sense, what happens
around the
country?
NANCY NORTHUP, President, Center
for Reproductive
Rights: This was a tremendous
victory today.
It was just a clear-out win.
And so what that means for Texas
is that the
clinics that are currently open
in Texas can
stay open -- they were
threatened to be closed
by this underhanded law -- and
also that other
clinics would be able to reopen.
You know,
one of the things that happened
with HB-2
was that it devastated abortion
access in
Texas, closing half of the laws,
under which
the Supreme Court said today was
unconstitutional,
because they weren't justified
on medical
grounds at all.
GWEN IFILL: So, Steven Aden,
what worked and
what didn't in your argument to
keep those
-- or try to limit the scope of
the abortion
clinics?
STEVEN ADEN, Alliance Defending
Freedom: Well,
we believe, of course, that it's
a very big
disappointment and a big loss
for women's
health and safety.
All Texas was trying to do was
regulate abortion
in the same way and same manner
as other similar
outpatient abortion procedures.
If you or
I go in for a colonoscopy or a
laparoscopy,
chances are very good that our
doctor will
have admitting privileges,
because once in
a while, something goes wrong.
And when something
goes wrong, you want the best
standard of
health care available to help
you.
And that's all that Texas was
trying to do.
And the fact that the Supreme
Court would
strike this law down by one
vote, which it
did, doesn't augur well,
unfortunately, for
women's health.
GWEN IFILL: Weren't you hoping
more for a
4-4 let it stand ruling, rather
than...
STEVEN ADEN: That would have
been the result,
that's right, Gwen. If Justice
Kennedy had
come along, it would have been a
4-4 split,
and the good Fifth Circuit
decision affirming
the laws would have been upheld.
But, alas,
that didn't happen today.
GWEN IFILL: Nancy Northup, what
about this
argument that this was something
affecting
women's health and in fact that
the law was
designed to protect women's
health?
NANCY NORTHUP: Well, I think the
Supreme Court
made clear today that this was a
pretext,
the idea that it was about
women's health,
because, as the American Medical
Association
and others saw, it didn't
advance women's
health.
And in fact it hurt it by
putting so many
women out of reach of being able
to get abortion
services. It's a game-changer,
the decision
from the Supreme Court today,
which is why
we're excited about it, because
we have been
fighting these kind of sham laws
for years.
And the Supreme Court has really
made clear
that you have got to have a
justification
if you're going to regulate
abortion, and
that you have to make sure that
the burden
doesn't overwhelm the
justification that the
law has, or it can't stand.
GWEN IFILL: Steven Aden, was
this a game-changer?
Is this landmark, historical,
all those big
words we have been using today?
STEVEN ADEN: It remains to be
seen whether
this is a one-off. As I said,
this was basically
the decision of one justice who
went the other
way.
GWEN IFILL: Isn't that how most
things get
decided in the court?
STEVEN ADEN: Unfortunately, yes.
But what we will find out in
years to come
with I'm sure many cases like
this coming
before the court is whether the
Supreme Court
is in earnest in making it more
difficult
for states to regulate abortion,
the same
way they do similar outpatient
medical providers.
That's all Texas was really
trying to do.
And the fact that it in fact
closed a number
of clinics says two things.
First, as the
lead plaintiff in one of the
cases, Amy Hagstrom
Miller, said twice to The Wall
Street Journal,
she's more concerned about
Planned Parenthood
closing her down, because
is cornering the market for
abortion in Texas,
than about regulation itself.
So we don't know why those
clinics closed,
many of them. We just know that
they did.
And that was the argument that
Texas made.
But, unfortunately, again, the
Supreme Court
by one vote didn't accept that
argument.
GWEN IFILL: I want you to
respond to that.
And then I want to ask you about
that single-vote
majority.
NANCY NORTHUP: Well, I think
really the decision
today is the response to that.
The court could not have been
clearer that
was no justification for these
laws. And this
is what we have been facing in
scores of laws
passed around the country. And
court after
court after court in general
have blocked
them because they're not
justified. They see
them for what they are, which is
an attempt
to do by the back door what you
can't by the
front, which is ban abortion.
The Supreme Court reiterated
today, as it
has for 40 years, women have a
right to make
the important personal decisions
for their
lives. And with this decision
today, the reason
it's so monumental is that it
protects for
the next generation of American
women the
right to make these decisions
for themselves.
GWEN IFILL: Let's talk about how
the decision
got made. You have mentioned a
couple of times,
Steven Aden, that Justice
Kennedy, is who
you're speaking of in this case,
decided basically
to tip the balance. Were you
surprised by
that?
STEVEN ADEN: A little bit.
He has made no secret of his
antipathy for
abortion. He spoke strongly
against it the
last time the Supreme Court made
a pronouncement
on the practice back in Gonzales
v. Carhart.
What is interesting to note
about this is,
when you talk about women making
decisions,
this law was upheld twice by two
Fifth Circuit
panels. Open those Fifth Circuit
panels were
five different women, and I
think that says
a lot for how women view this
law.
By and large, when they get a
chance to look
at the facts, they uphold it.
But in this
case, one man, Justice Breyer,
writing for
the court, decided that law was
a no-go, imposed
an undue burden, which is a
shame.
GWEN IFILL: What about that, the
idea that
one man writing for the court
turned this
upside down, against the
interests of women?
NANCY NORTHUP: The Supreme Court
obviously
is -- five justices ruled today
in our favor.
And the issue is not whether
it's men or women
sitting on the court.
Americans differ in their views
about abortion.
What's important and the courts
recognize
that, while people of good faith
can disagree
about abortion, the Constitution
protects
our decisions that we make about
whether or
not to end a pregnancy, the
decisions about
our family and our lives and our
health.
And that's what matters. So
people can make
their own decisions, but what
the court protects
and the rule of law was
vindicated today was
that it is for women to make
these decisions.
That's been true for over 40
years, and it
was reaffirmed again today in
this important
case.
GWEN IFILL: That said, were you
surprised
by Justice Kennedy's decision?
NANCY NORTHUP: Justice Kennedy
was in the
majority in the Planned
Parenthood vs. Casey
case, which was the last huge
abortion case
that set the standard that the
court interpreted
today.
So Justice Kennedy was
consistent with the
decision, as the court was in
what they ruled
on 24 years ago.
GWEN IFILL: Let me ask you both
briefly, is
this it? Is this over, or does
this fight
continue in another way?
STEVEN ADEN: I think it
continues in many
ways. The pro-life movement has
been winning
on all fronts. It lost today in
this one court,
but it's been winning in the
court of public
opinion. It's been winning the
First Amendment
questions about access to
sidewalks in front
of abortion clinics.
By and large, the -- in fact,
the abortion
rate today is the same as it was
in 1973,
the year Roe vs. Wade was
decided, which tells
me that the pro-life movement is
winning.
And I think we will continue to
win, regardless
of what the courts say, although
the fight
will continue in the courts.
NANCY NORTHUP: We have a lot of
work ahead
of us.
There are state laws that we're
going to get
overturned in the light of this
decision.
And the momentum is on our side.
In fact,
seven in 10 Americans do support
that women
should be able to make the
decision about
terminating a pregnancy.
And so, as we see the fight is
going to go
ahead, we are going to see the
momentum be
on the side. And the Supreme
Court's overwhelming
rejection of underhanded tactics
that they
did today is a really good sign
for the future.
GWEN IFILL: Nancy Northup,
president of the
Center for Reproductive Rights,
and Steven
Aden, senior counsel for
Alliance Defending
Freedom, thank you both very
much.
NANCY NORTHUP: Thank you.
STEVEN ADEN: Thank you, Gwen.
GWEN IFILL: We turn now to
Britain, and the
hangover from last week's
historic vote.
Hari Sreenivasan is in London.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There is
confusion with
a touch of remorse here in
England as the
reality of their vote to leave
the E.U. settles
in. Key promises that were made
are being
walked back, and Parliament is
met with the
task of picking a new prime
minister.
DAVID CAMERON, British Prime
Minister: The
decision must be accepted, and
the process
of implementing the decision in
the best possible
way must now begin.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It was his
first appearance
in the House of Commons since
the fateful
vote, and Prime Minister David
Cameron sought
to reassure a jittery country.
DAVID CAMERON: We know that this
is going
to be far from plain sailing.
However, we
should take confidence from the
fact that
Britain is ready to confront
what the future
holds for us from a position of
strength.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Cameron
himself will not
be a part of that effort. He
opposed leaving
the E.U., and plans to step down
by fall.
His Labor Party counterpart,
Jeremy Corbyn,
also opposed Brexit and is also
under pressure
to quit. Nearly 30 members of
his inner circle
have resigned since Sunday to
protest Corbyn's
leadership.
Those who championed taking
Britain out of
the E.U. face criticism as well
amid claims
they have no concrete plans for
what to do
next. One urgent question,
exactly when and
how the United Kingdom will
formally depart
the E.U. First, London must
invoke Article
50 of the E.U. treaty, which
governs exiting
the union. That, in turn, will
start negotiations
that could take two years.
Prime Minister Cameron said
today the government
is in no rush to take that step.
DAVID CAMERON: The British
government will
not be triggering Article 50 at
this stage.
Before we do that, we need to
determine the
kind of relationship we want
with the E.U.,
and that is rightly something
for the next
prime minister and their Cabinet
to decide.
HARI SREENIVASAN: European
leaders also met
today in Berlin and agreed no
formal or informal
exit talks will begin before
Britain officially
invokes Article 50. German
Chancellor Angela
Merkel acknowledged they don't
expect that
to happen overnight.
ANGELA MERKEL, German Chancellor
(through
translator): We can't afford
long-term uncertainty.
It wouldn't be in either side's
economic interest.
But I have a certain
understanding that Great
Britain needs a certain amount
of time to
analyze things.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Meanwhile,
efforts are under
way to calm other members of the
E.U.
U.S. Secretary of State John
Kerry was in
Brussels today, meeting with the
E.U.'s federal
policy chief, Federica
Mogherini.
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: Oh, I
think it is absolutely essential
that we stay
focused on how, in this
transitional period,
nobody loses their head, nobody
goes off half-cocked,
people don't start ginning up
scatterbrained
or revengeful premises, but we
look for ways
to maintain the strength that
will serve the
interests and The values that
brought us together
in the first place.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Kerry traveled
on to London
to meet with his British
counterpart, Philip
Hammond, and said the U.S.
relationship with
the U.K. will stay strong.
But global markets are another
matter, and
they fell again today, despite
attempts at
reassurance by the British
treasury chief,
George Osborne.
GEORGE OSBORNE, British
Chancellor of the
Exchequer: We were prepared for
the unexpected,
and we are equipped for whatever
happens.
And we are determined that,
unlike eight years
ago, Britain's financial system
will help
our country deal with any shocks
and dampen
them, not contribute to those
shocks or make
them worse.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Former London
Mayor Boris
Johnson, one of the most
prominent leave campaigners,
welcomed Osborne's efforts to
allay concerns.
BORIS JOHNSON, Former Mayor of
London: It's
clear now that project fear is
over. There
is not going to be an emergency
budget, people's
pensions are safe, the pound is
stable, the
markets are stable, and I think
that's all
very good news.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Still, a
leading British
business group said 20 percent
of its 1,000
members now plan to move some of
their operations
outside the U.K.
We head to Scotland now, where
Malcolm Brabant
reports on the mood among
citizens where a
majority of voters had wanted to
stay.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Stung by the
Brexit vote
in England and Wales, Scotland
now appears
to be racing along the road to
independence.
Two years ago, Scots voted in a
referendum
against leaving the United
Kingdom, above
all because it guaranteed
continued membership
of the European Union.
According to independence
activist Stuart
Bremner, Brexit feels like
betrayal.
STUART BREMNER, Independence
Activist: The
Scottish referendum was a bit
like the final
cracks opening in the British
Empire, and
what we're seeing in this in the
last couple
of days could be not just
cracks, but the
final heart of the British
Empire splintering
completely. People are unable to
say what
they feel because they're so
emotional. There's
tears. There's anger.
I was in a march and a rally
just in this
very square on Friday night, and
there were
people speaking, there were
people crying.
And people are upset, deeply
upset by this.
And it's almost beyond words,
just because
it's too enormous. What's
happening is beyond
anything we have ever known in
this country
in our lifetimes.
MALCOLM BRABANT: On Edinburgh's
Royal Mile,
an upbeat tune swirled from the
pipes of Thomas
Wilson, but in his heart was a
lament.
THOMAS WILSON, Musician: I'm
incredibly disappointed,
actually. I never -- obviously,
I never wanted
to leave the E.U. I'm incredibly
worried.
I think, well, for starters, I'm
a big supporter
of free movement around Europe.
I enjoy going
around Europe, and busking and
traveling to
all the different kind of
cities, you know?
And I find it very disappointing
that I will
not be able to do that as easily
anymore.
I think we should go for another
-- our own
independence referendum again,
which I hope
will happen in the next two
years, because
that's when the U.K. are
planning on leaving
Europe.
MALCOLM BRABANT: With an opinion
poll estimating
that nearly 60 percent of Scots
now want independence,
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon
has taken the
nation's pulse and put the
wheels in motion.
NICOLA STURGEON, Scottish First
Minister:
A second independence referendum
is clearly
an option that requires to be on
the table
and it is very much on the
table. And to ensure
that that option is a
deliverable one in the
required timetable, steps will
be taken now
to ensure that the necessary
legislation is
in place.
MALCOLM BRABANT: That's music to
the ears
of hard-core Scottish
nationalists, who've
never abandoned hope of what
they regard as
liberation, especially at the
permanent vigil
in Edinburgh, where campaigners
display the
Arbroath Declaration of
Independence, written
in the 14th century by the
legendary Scottish
King Robert the Bruce.
Unemployed bricklayer's laborer
Dean Halliday.
DEAN HALLIDAY, Scotland: They
made their decision
about their country. We made our
decision
about ours. There's no
difference. We don't
not like the English people. The
English people
are lovely people. It's their
government that
we don't want to be tied to. We
can't keep
being subservient to a
government that's not
working in our best interests,
and that's
Westminster.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Outside
Scotland's idiosyncratic
Parliament Building,
Holyroodhouse, the Brexit
vote has reaffirmed history
lecturer Lesley
Orr's desire for independence.
She believes
Scotland is sufficiently mature
to flourish.
LESLEY ORR, Professor: Scotland
is not just
part of the state of the United
Kingdom, but
it's a nation which has its own
longstanding,
centuries-old traditions,
relationships, legal
framework, educational system,
religious tradition,
all of which are different from
that of England
and of Wales.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The leader of
the main opposition
Scottish Conservative Party,
Ruth Davidson,
is vehemently opposed to a
second independence
vote north of the border.
RUTH DAVIDSON, Scottish
Parliament Member:
The U.K. market is worth four
times as much
to Scotland's in the E.U.
market. I cannot
support even further instability
by having
a second independence
referendum. We voted
on that in Scotland. We had a
clear vote with
a clear mandate to stay within
the United
Kingdom.
And we all now have to work
together, Scottish
government and U.K. government,
to get the
best deal for Scotland's
businesses going
forward.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Scotland's
first minister,
Nicola Sturgeon, is advising
Parliament here
to vote against Britain leaving
the European
Union. Some people are hoping
that her words
mean that Scotland has the power
of veto.
But constitutional experts say
that is not
the case. All the Parliament can
do is to
advise Westminster.
Christine O'Neill, one of
Scotland's top constitutional
lawyers, believes the country
should be in
line for fast-track membership
of the E.U.,
if it becomes independent.
CHRISTINE O'NEILL,
Constitutional Lawyer:
Well, the first point is the
E.U. normally
deals with states, rather than
sub-state entities.
So it would be quite difficult
for Scotland
to be a member of the E.U.
without being a
state in its own right.
If Scotland was to become
independent, then
it could negotiate its way into
the E.U. in
the way other states have done
in the past.
And we would expect Scotland to
be in a strong
position to negotiate
membership, given that
it's in the E.U. at the moment.
MALCOLM BRABANT: But what about
business?
Edinburgh was the birthplace of
Adam Smith,
the economist who espoused the
virtues of
the free market. Whiskey is a
pillar of the
Scottish economy, providing 10
percent of
the nation's exports to the
E.U., and generating
40,000 jobs.
According to industry spokesman
David Williamson,
the producers aren't sure which
way to jump
over independence.
DAVID WILLIAMSON, Whiskey
Industry Spokesman:
Scotch whiskey has been around
for 500 years.
We will still be selling Scotch
whiskey to
markets around Europe. But what
our members
are telling us is that there's
uncertainty,
for example, access to and
influence within
the single market, our biggest
market.
And also for us as an export
industry, how
do we keep benefiting from the
trade deals
that the E.U. has negotiated
with countries
around the world?
MALCOLM BRABANT: At Arthur's
Seat, the volcanic
crag dominating Edinburgh,
business leader
Jill Murphy insisted that
Scotland had nothing
to fear from Great Britain
becoming the dis-United
Kingdom.
JILL MURPHY, Business Leader: We
polled our
members, and 82 percent of them
were clear
that they wanted to remain
within the European
Union, and that's because we're
a net exporter.
We want to keep that single
market open. We
want to keep that area of trade
open. It benefits
Scottish business, but it also
benefits our
-- it benefits our youth in
studying future
innovators and future investors
in the Scottish
economy.
MALCOLM BRABANT: But there were
cautionary
words from Frances and Ioannis
(ph) Lalos.
She's Scottish. He's Greek. They
moved to
Scotland from Athens six years
ago to escape
the Greek financial crisis. They
have worked
hard to become financially
secure, are about
to buy a house, but are worried
about the
currency of a future independent
Scotland.
FRANCES LALOS, Teaching
Assistant: If Scotland
was to become independent from
the U.K., they
would, I presume, have to enter
the Eurozone
like the rest of the countries
entering the
euro when they join the European
Union. And
that would be a concern for me.
We experienced
that living in Greece. And it
was a disaster
for Greece. I wouldn't want that
to happen
to Scotland. It's a small
country in a big
pond, and I have concerns that
might not work
out well.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Four days after
the referendum,
and warnings of Armageddon,
Britain is still
floating along, although her
foundations seem
to have vanished.
But here in Edinburgh, as in the
rest of the
United Kingdom, no one seems to
know what
the future will bring, except it
will be like
Scotland's national symbol,
prickly.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Malcolm Brabant
in Edinburgh.
GWEN IFILL: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
Jeff Brown kicks
off our summer reading series
with a highly
anticipated novel, one loosely
based on the
women in Charles Manson's cult.
But, first: Democrats Hillary
Clinton and
Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth
Warren hit
the trail today in Ohio,
focusing their energy
on presumptive Republican
nominee Donald Trump.
The candidates are squaring off
over trade,
Brexit, and which one of them is
more qualified.
For that, we turn to Politics
Monday with
Amy Walter of The Cook Political
Report and
Tamara Keith of NPR.
Let's start by the big
Cincinnati standoff
today -- I don't think it was a
standoff -- between
Elizabeth Warren, an apparently
very exciting
rally, and Hillary Clinton in
which we saw
the two of them basically take
turns taking
shots at Donald Trump.
Let's take a listen.
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D),
Massachusetts:
What kind of man roots for
people to lose
their jobs, to lose their homes,
to lose their
life savings? I will tell you
what kind of
a man, a small, insecure
money-grubber who
fights for no one but himself.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
This is a man who plays coy with
white supremacists
and mocks people with
disabilities, who talks
about banning an entire religion
from entering
our country, who advocates
getting rid of
gun-free zones in school,
letting more countries
have nuclear weapons, defaulting
on our national
debt, turning back the clock on
marriage equality.
And just like Elizabeth, I could
go on and
on.
GWEN IFILL: Go on and on, but
she didn't have
to, because before they etch got
on stage
at about 6:00 this morning,
Donald Trump tweeted
this: "Crooked Hillary is
wheeling out one
of the least productive senators
in the U.S.
Senate, goofy Elizabeth Warren,
who lied on
heritage."
Where to begin, Tam? OK.
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Yes.
GWEN IFILL: Just go.
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: Well,
and then Donald Trump, after the
speech was
over, called a correspondent for
NBC News
and doubled down on the
Elizabeth Warren lied
about her heritage thing and
said that, absolutely,
he should call her Pocahontas.
This is an issue that dates back
to the 2012
Senate race that Elizabeth
Warren ultimately
won. And one of the issues was,
at some point,
did she check a box that said
she was Native
American, and did that help her
get preference
in hiring?
Well, then the Republican Party
held a call
to respond to the Clinton-Warren
speech. And
Scott Brown, Senator Scott
Brown, former Senator
Scott Brown, who had run against
Elizabeth
Warren in 2012, was on the call.
He was asked, hey, does it make
sense that
your candidate is going after a
surrogate
and not the person he's running
against? And
Scott Brown's response was,
well, maybe Elizabeth
Warren could get a DNA test and
solve this
for everybody. He said that with
a little
bit of a chuckle, but the point
is that, very
quickly, they were not talking
about Hillary
Clinton. They were talking about
Elizabeth
Warren.
GWEN IFILL: Well, this is my
question. It
seems that there are many things
they could
be talking about.
They could be talking about
Brexit. They could
be talking about trade. Instead,
everybody
seems to be trying to get under
else's skin.
AMY WALTER: Right. Exactly.
And this is the "I know you are
but what am
I?" election, which is...
GWEN IFILL: Is that a strategy?
AMY WALTER: The actual speech
today with Hillary
Clinton and Elizabeth Warren,
you picked out
the parts where they definitely
were digging
at Donald Trump.
But there was also a broader
economic message
in there, right? And you could
see it in the
display they had on the front of
the podium
that said, we're better
together.
(CROSSTALK)
TAMARA KEITH: It's stronger
together.
AMY WALTER: And just the point
about we're
going to be bringing...
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: Yes, we know what
this means.
Yes, but we're be bringing
people along based
on X, Y, Z policies, and Hillary
Clinton went
through her policy positions.
But, of course,
that's not particularly
interesting. What's
much more interesting and buzzy
is the debate
over this "I know you are but
what am I?"
piece.
GWEN IFILL: In part because they
seem to be
successful in getting him to
respond.
We saw just a few days ago a
huge kind of
global upheaval, and we saw the
way that Donald
Trump responded to it. We saw
the kind of
careful way Hillary Clinton
responded to it.
How did Hillary Clinton's
response and how
did Donald Trump's response fit
into a larger
strategy that may or may not be
working for
either of them?
TAMARA KEITH: Well, they're
playing the part,
that's for sure.
Donald Trump was at his golf
course in Scotland,
grand opening of the golf course
that his
son had worked on. He was there
to promote
the golf course. Along one of
the holes, he
talked about Brexit and said,
hey, the pound
falling may be bad for people,
but it could
be good. People might come to my
golf course.
That is completely in line with
what Donald
Trump has said about various
things. He is
doing what he did in the primary
that was
wildly successful for him. He's
not running
ads on television in key swing
states. Hillary
Clinton is. He thinks he has a
strategy that's
going to work.
Hillary Clinton and her campaign
are now running
ads, on cable at least,
attacking Donald Trump
on his reaction to Brexit. And,
you know,
she responds with sort of the
wonky world
leader kind of thing. They're
doing themselves.
GWEN IFILL: They're playing to
type.
AMY WALTER: Well, and they're
also playing
to what the major theme in this
campaign is,
right, and what it was in
Britain, which is,
do you want to stay the course,
stick with
the status quo, even though it
has not brought
the success that you hoped it
would, or do
you make a change, even though
it's a very
unpredictable change?
And the thing that we're seeing
in this country
-- you have to be very careful
about making
parallels. It's obviously two
different countries,
et cetera, et cetera. But in the
last -- this
was in the early June poll in
The Wall Street
Journal. They asked the
question, I think
correctly, which is -- of voters
-- would
you like to see change even if
it's unpredictable
or sort of a more steady, stay
the course,
even though it's not going to
bring much change?
A majority of voters, 53
percent, say they
want to see change. And that is
what Donald
Trump is hoping he is going to
be able to
project forward, which, again,
yes, there
is some danger in making a
change, but aren't
things the way they are now so
terrible that
you're willing to try something
different?
GWEN IFILL: I read today that
some -- that
when asked about whether it
bothered them
that Donald Trump didn't appear
to know what
Brexit was a week or so ago,
folks said that's
OK because they didn't know
either. They didn't
know at the time either.
But there are other polls we're
kind of following.
So, let's throw them all into a
pot. We have
a Washington Post/ABC poll that
shows Hillary
Clinton ahead by double digits.
We have another
one that shows -- a Wall Street
Journal/NBC
News poll that shows her ahead
by five.
And I wonder, as we begin to add
them all
up together, whether they mean
anything at
this stage.
TAMARA KEITH: Well, we can
average them and
say Hillary Clinton is ahead at
this point,
at this moment in time, in the
snapshot, but
then we also get these swing
state polls that
show it much tighter in those
swing states.
GWEN IFILL: Which he cites, by
the way, when
he's behind.
TAMARA KEITH: Which, of course,
he does cite.
And he has concerns about the
methodology
in some of the polls, which he
liked those
polls earlier. But whatever the
case may be,
these are polls. The broad trend
is that he
is not ahead.
AMY WALTER: And I'm going to
wait. I think
they are important, and I think
that trend
is correct.
I think after the convention is
going to be
an important time to clue in.
And we know,
historically, once the
conventions are over,
we start to hit that August,
September, and
when the numbers start to lock
in then, they're
harder to change, unless there
is some big,
major event.
So I think we may still see some
volatility
going on. The other thing that I
thought was
really interesting, especially
in the NBC
poll that came out today, for
all the talk
of the collapse for Donald
Trump, how he's
losing, what I found, the
congressional ballot
test, which asks, would you vote
for a Democrat
or a Republican in the House of
Representatives,
that's evenly divided?
In other words, what's happening
is, there
is not that downward pull, not
yet at least
-- it may happen -- of Donald
Trump on candidates
underneath him. So Senate and
House members
who are Republicans who are very
fearful right
now of a Donald Trump effect,
it's not showing
up.
GWEN IFILL: One more question
about this Brexit
issue.
I have noticed at the end of
Hillary Clinton's
speech today, she said let's
take our country,
and I thought, where's she
going? And she
said in the right direction,
which is not
back again or whatever it is
that Trump says.
But I do wonder whether a Brexit
vote gets
people's attention enough or
whether we really
don't make these kinds of
judgments based
on issues that happen abroad.
TAMARA KEITH: I would argue that
people are
not really closely following
what's happening
abroad. But I think that the
broad themes
of the Brexit vote are something
that should
give Hillary Clinton and her
campaign great
pause.
AMY WALTER: Well, I agree with
that, but there
has been an immediate effect.
And that is, if you have a
401(k) or if you
have any -- at all in the stock
market, that
was an immediate impact. And
does it continue?
It's one thing if it was one bad
day and it
comes back. If it doesn't come
back, then
we're going to start to have a
real discussion
about how Brexit impacted all of
us.
GWEN IFILL: Oh, boy.
Well, it's one more thing to add
to the loop.
That's great.
Amy Walter, Tamara Keith, thank
you both very
much.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
GWEN IFILL: Now to one of
summer's great pleasures,
tackling that book you have been
meaning to
get to.
Tonight, we begin a week's worth
of suggestions,
beginning with one of the most
eagerly anticipated
debut novels of the year. In the
first of
a three-book deal with Random
House author
Emma Cline writes "The Girls,"
the story of
a charismatic Charles
Manson-like figure,
and the young women who were
under his control.
Jeffrey Brown spoke with Cline
at the recent
BookExpo America in Chicago.
JEFFREY BROWN: Tell us first --
tell me first,
where did the idea come from?
Was it something
always in your head?
EMMA CLINE, Author, "The Girls":
I'm from
Northern California, where the
book is set.
And I sort of grew up hearing
all about the
California mythology, sort of
all the Manson
stories, the communes and cults
that are very
endemic to that state. And so I
really wanted
some way to engage with it in a
new way that
wasn't like the stories I had
heard, which
focused on the men. I was always
more curious
about the women involved.
JEFFREY BROWN: There is a lot in
just what
you said.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: So, let me go
back first. The
California mythology.
EMMA CLINE: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: You're young,
but, for you,
these were myths.
EMMA CLINE: Right.
Both of my parents are
Californians. They
were the same age as my main
character in
the '60s. Both lived in
California. So I think,
for them, these events were
really cultural
touchstones. So, growing up, I
heard a lot
about them.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, how much
did you know?
In detail or just sort of out
there?
EMMA CLINE: First just
generally, and then
in detail. I think everyone that
I know, anyway,
sort of had that experience of
reading "Helter
Skelter" as like a teenager.
JEFFREY BROWN: The Manson story.
EMMA CLINE: Yes, and sort of
feeling that
it was a sordid, exciting thing
that you were
just drawn to.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
EMMA CLINE: So, maybe when I was
a teenager,
I got more into it.
JEFFREY BROWN: And when did you
actually start
writing it?
EMMA CLINE: I started writing it
maybe four
years ago now, but I was always
sort of circling
around the same ideas, always
interested in
communes and sort of extreme
living situations
and extreme moments.
JEFFREY BROWN: Why?
EMMA CLINE: I think it's what I
like most
reading about in fiction, sort
of the edge
of human experience, and I think
communes
sort of bring out the best and
worst in people.
JEFFREY BROWN: So what kind of
research did
you do then? Did you go live on
one?
EMMA CLINE: Sort of.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
EMMA CLINE: I lived in a
collective in college.
It was very mild. Very nice.
But, no, I mean, I did research
before I even
knew it was research, just
because it was
something I -- I was always
interested in
that era and sort of memoirs
from that time.
And there is so much of the '60s
still left
over in California. We never
quite recovered
from the '60s, so it's lots of
leftovers.
JEFFREY BROWN: When you start
writing, do
you set all the research aside,
or do you
keep it sitting there to use
details?
EMMA CLINE: Yes, definitely,
it's like taking
in so much information and then
trying -- just
forgetting about that and trying
to get at
some tone that feels truthful.
I'm not so much interested in
factual truth.
This is not a Manson novel.
JEFFREY BROWN: Right.
EMMA CLINE: It's sort of taking
a germ from
the Manson -- and then really
transposing
that into something else.
And I hope this story is --
stands on its
own enough that it's not seen as
Manson novel,
because, to me, it's really the
cult and the
crime at the center, it's not
what the novel's
about. To me, it's more about
relationships.
JEFFREY BROWN: Right, and it's
about the girls,
the name, right, which is what
you...
EMMA CLINE: Right.
JEFFREY BROWN: I want to come
back to what
you said earlier.
EMMA CLINE: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: That you were not
so interested
in the ways these stories are
normally told,
which is through like the madman
or the charismatic
man.
EMMA CLINE: Right. Right. Yes.
Exactly, which
is such a familiar story.
Like, oh, he's a charismatic
sociopath, so
like everyone is drawn to him.
And to me,
Charles Manson and people like
him are actually
pretty one-note, especially as
characters
in a novel. They're sort of
everyday psychopaths.
And I'm not -- there is no
ambiguity there
for me. But the women, many of
whom were homecoming
queens and straight-A students,
who end up
following someone like that, to
me, that's
where the story was.
JEFFREY BROWN: Because that goes
to your -- what
you were saying about kind of
the good and
bad, or the extremes, that
somehow people
get thrown into it in a way they
never would
have expected.
EMMA CLINE: Right. Right. Yes.
I was thinking about it
recently, because
I had read a story about the
sort of teenage
girls in Europe who run away and
join ISIS.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
EMMA CLINE: And it's something
that's still
-- it's still happening in these
other ways.
It's this strange combination of
innocence,
you know, teenage girls, and
then this extremely,
like, horrifying realm that you
can't understand
what the draw is. And I wanted
to sort of
really get down to a granular
psychological
level of what is drawing girls
to this sort
of dangerous group.
JEFFREY BROWN: So then how did
you create
these characters? I mean, given
that, you
were trying to give them sort of
a normal
upbringing, right? Yes.
EMMA CLINE: Right.
It's sort of trying to figure
out what could
be the milieu that someone is
coming from
where this other group starts to
seem magnetic?
And that's like maybe there is
trouble at
home or -- and I think all
teenagers have
that desire to be seen and
known. And if you
feel like you aren't being seen,
and then
there is someone who does see
you or feels
-- you know, you feel yourself
reflected back,
I think that's...
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. Yes. Yes.
So, because this is your first
novel, I mean,
you are clearly -- you were
clearly learning
as you wrote it, right? Is that
fair to say?
EMMA CLINE: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, what was the
-- I think
people would be interested in
what was the
hardest part of -- was it
plotting, was it
character? Was it -- what was
it?
EMMA CLINE: I mean, the whole
thing was a
struggle, and only, like, in the
last week
was I, like, oh, this is a book.
but up until
that last week, I was, like,
this is a mess.
JEFFREY BROWN: Really? You had a
moment where
you said, finally, this is a
book?
EMMA CLINE: Yes, there was a
moment when it
felt like a book to me.
JEFFREY BROWN: And what did that
mean?
EMMA CLINE: I don't know. I
could see it.
Sort of it, it had a
completeness, whereas
before it was sort of, you know,
loose.
JEFFREY BROWN: And, finally,
what's next?
Are you working on...
EMMA CLINE: I'm working on a
novel. I'm still
in the early days of it, but I'm
very happy
to be on to something new.
JEFFREY BROWN: You are?
EMMA CLINE: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Is it coming
easier this time
or is any...
EMMA CLINE: No.
JEFFREY BROWN: No.
EMMA CLINE: That's what I
thought. I thought,
if you it did once, then you
sort of knew
how to do it.
JEFFREY BROWN: Now I know how to
do it.
EMMA CLINE: But I feel like,
every new book,
you know, you're struggling
anew, which -- yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, well,
happy struggle.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: The book is "The
Girls."
Emma Cline, thank you so much.
EMMA CLINE: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: You can watch many
more of Jeff's
author interviews from BookExpo
America and
other book festivals. You will
find those
at the Web site,
PBS.org/book-view-now.
GWEN IFILL: Finally tonight, our
"NewsHour"
Shares, something that caught
our eye that
might be of interest to you,
too.
In 2012, a "NewsHour" colleague
suggested
historian Michael Beschloss
create a Twitter
profile to share what interested
him most.
Since then, Beschloss has
provided a unique
perspective on American history
often through
photos to his more than 140,000
followers.
He spoke with us recently about
some of favorite
posts.
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS, Presidential
Historian:
I do a lot of historical
photographs, but
with a relevance to today, try
to find things
people have not seen before, but
also things
that remind us that there is a
history to
some of the events in people
we're seeing
now.
This is John Kennedy, 1954, with
wife, Jackie,
sister-in-law Ethel taking an
early version
of what we now call selfies, in
this case
in a mirror.
Louis Armstrong in 1961 was
playing in Egypt,
and a photographer got the
wonderful idea
of talking him and his wife to
the Pyramids
and the Sphinx.
This is really eerie. These are
the contents
of Abraham Lincoln's pockets on
the night
that he was murdered. The most
amazing thing
here is that among the things
that Lincoln
was holding the night he died
was a $5 Confederate
bill, and sort of amazing when
you think about
the fact that nowadays the
United States $5
bill has a picture of Abraham
Lincoln.
Six first ladies backstage, an
event, 1994,
Nancy Reagan, Lady Bird Johnson,
Hillary Clinton,
Rosalynn Carter, Betty Ford,
Barbara Bush.
Take a look at the relationships
among them.
Shows you how one photograph can
speak volumes.
Babe Ruth was knocked out
unconscious during
a game in 1924, was out for
about five minutes,
and this was a very different
time. He went
back into the game and played.
It was a doubleheader.
He played another game that day.
Wouldn't
happen today.
This is a report card that John
Lennon got
when he was 16 years old, and
what his principal
said of him was, "He has too
many of the wrong
ambitions and his energy is
often misplaced."
Marilyn Monroe went to Korea in
1954 to perform
for troops. She had a Pentagon
I.D., which
shows her married name at the
time, which
was Norma Jean DiMaggio.
1865, New York, Abraham
Lincoln's funeral
parade through the city of New
York, and up
in the window, upper left in
that circle,
is a 6-year-old Theodore
Roosevelt looking
down. For the rest of his life,
he was affected
by this. When he was president,
he said, "I
used to ask myself, what would
Lincoln do?"
This is Harry Truman in the late
1930s having
a gun pulled on him by Vice
President John
Nance Garner. They thought it
was a joke in
those days. Take a look at this
image nowadays.
A vice president doing this
these days wouldn't
be so funny.
When I began doing this, I
thought I would
be on Twitter for about a week,
because I
thought there would be about
three people
who would be interested in
looking at old
pictures. And the amazing thing
was that,
within a week, the number of
followers really
went up very steeply.
And since then, I have found
that there are
a lot more people interested in
history in
America in general and
particularly our visual
history than I realized.
GWEN IFILL: He's worth a follow.
You can follow
Michael's photos on Twitter
@BeschlossDC.
On the "NewsHour" online right
now: A national
study by the Pew Research Center
suggests
that our perceptions of progress
toward racial
equality remain splintered. Four
out of 10
African-Americans said they
doubt the nation
will ever achieve racial
equality, while as
many white Americans believe
racial equality
has been achieved. A deeper look
at that data
and more is on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
Tune in later tonight on
"Charlie Rose": the
music and LGBT politics of the
Canadian duo
Tegan and Sara.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm
Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.